# AutomationML API
AutomationML 2.1 API 


## Namespaces
&nbsp;<table><tr><th>Namespace</th><th>Description</th></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_Adapter">Aml.Engine.Adapter</a></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_AmlObjects">Aml.Engine.AmlObjects</a></td><td>
The Aml.Engine.AmlObjects Namespace contains classes that support the generation and analysis of AutomationML features which are specified in the AutomationML standard, white-papers, best practice recommendation or application recommendations. These features are not covered with the classes in the Aml.Engine.CAEX namespace, which only supports the CAEX standard. Classes in the Aml.Engine.AmlObjects namespace may be derived from the CAEX classes.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_AmlObjects_Extensions">Aml.Engine.AmlObjects.Extensions</a></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_CAEX">Aml.Engine.CAEX</a></td><td>
The Aml.Engine.CAEX Namespace contains classes that support the generation, retrieval and analysis of CAEX Documents according to the CAEX standard. The classes currently support the CAEX Versions - CAEX 2.15 and CAEX 3.0. Classes and methods are designed to create schema conform documents. The basic XDocument is wrapped with the <a href="T_Aml_Engine_CAEX_CAEXDocument">CAEXDocument</a>. Direct access to the XDocument and direct manipulations of XElements by an application are not monitored by the AMLEngine. Schema conformance is only guaranteed if the API methods are used.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_CAEX_Commands">Aml.Engine.CAEX.Commands</a></td><td>
The Aml.Engine.CAEX.Commands Namespace contains different commands that are provided to add, delete or change elements in a CAEX document. The classes support the implementation of Undo Redo using the command pattern with methods for command execution and reverse execution. If an Undo Redo service is registered, it will be located by the commands and used to push commands on the Undo Redo stack.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_CAEX_Extensions">Aml.Engine.CAEX.Extensions</a></td><td>
The Aml.Engine.CAEX.Extensions Namespace contains extension methods for most of the specific CAEXObject classes. The most of these extension methods are methods which are obsolete and only kept to be downward compatible to AMLEngine the versions prior to v5.0.0. For most of these methods, better alternatives are provided either via a specific service <a href="N_Aml_Engine_Services">Aml.Engine.Services</a> or are available in the <a href="N_Aml_Engine_CAEX">Aml.Engine.CAEX</a> namespace.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_CAEX_Linq">Aml.Engine.CAEX.Linq</a></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_Schema">Aml.Engine.Schema</a></td><td>
The Aml.Engine.Schema Namespace contains a schema parser which is used to parse the document assigned CAEX schema. All changes made to a document with API methods are supported by a schema specific schema manager which assures, that all insertions and changes are schema conform. Currently schema managers exist for CAEX version 2.15, which is <a href="T_Aml_Engine_Schema_AMLSchemaManager2_15">AMLSchemaManager2_15</a> and CAEX version 3.0, which is <a href="T_Aml_Engine_Schema_AMLSchemaManager3_0">AMLSchemaManager3_0</a>. The schema managers are made public to supply methods for schema conform CAEX document processing capabilities to users who don't like to use the API wrapper-classes and methods.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_Services">Aml.Engine.Services</a></td><td>
The Aml.Engine.Services namespace contains classes that define and implement specific Services that provide additional features for the processing of AMLDocuments. Registered services are located by the AMLEngine and can enhance API methods to provide faster queries or automated name assignment to added elements.</td></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_Services_Interfaces">Aml.Engine.Services.Interfaces</a></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_XML">Aml.Engine.XML</a></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="N_Aml_Engine_Xml_Extensions">Aml.Engine.Xml.Extensions</a></td><td></td></tr></table>&nbsp;
